If you go to the country, far from city lights, you can see about 3,000 stars
on a clear night. If your eyes were bigger, you could see many more stars.
With a pair of binoculars, an optical device that effectively enlarges the
pupil of your eye by about 30 times, the number of stars you can see
increases to the tens of thousands. With a medium-sized telescope with a
light-collecting mirror 30 centimeters in diameter, you can see hundreds
of thousands of stars. With a large observatory telescope, millions of stars
become visible.
It would seem that when it comes to observing the universe, the larger the
instrument, the better. This is true up to a point, but there are limits—limits
not imposed by technology but by nature itself.
Surrounding Earth is a life-sustaining atmosphere that stands between our
eyes and the radiation that falls upon Earth from outer space. This
radiation is comprised of a very broad spectrum of energies and
wavelengths. Collectively, they are referred to as the electromagnetic
spectrum. They range from radio and microwave radiation on the low
energy (long wavelength) end through infrared, v isible, ultraviolet, and xrays to gamma rays on the high energy (short wavelength) end. Gases
and other components of our atmosphere distort, filter, and block most of
this radiation permitting only a partial picture, primarily visible radiation
and some radio waves, to reach
Earth’s surface. Although many
things can be learned about our
universe by studying it from the
surface of Earth, the story is incomplete.
To view celestial objects over the whole
range of the
electromagnetic spectrum,
it is essential to climb
above the atmosphere into
outer space. From its earliest days, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration
(NASA) has used the emerging technology of rockets to explore the
universe. By lofting telescopes and other scientific instruments above the
veil of Earth’s atmosphere, NASA has delivered a treasure house of
information to astronomers, leading them to rethink their most
fundamental ideas about what the universe is, how it came to be, how it
functions, and what it is likely to become. 
saptarshi dutta is a hero